# Writing A Storied Conclusion

I think our lives are most beautifully told through written stories. The people, the places, the random assortments of ups 
and downs and tribulations and hopes and dreams and everything all splattered through permanent words on a page. Of such 
stories I have gathered in my library, one that has really stood out to me with its difficulty in finishing to write is
the story of my college years. It's not that I can't find the right words to write, as a matter of fact, I feel like my story
has been fully written, with a proper conclusive stroke even though I still have the bulk of 1 year remaining. That's the issue I have right now.

~Poeticish writing has ended, now let the rant continue~

I suppose I am very fortunate to be in this position, having signed a full time job offer so early and having the capacity to explore
other freedoms with finanical capital and general health, but I'm not really sure what pages I can write for this college story
though I do feel like there is a need to write, to start sentences that may not conclude this story but possibly the young professional
story that I have sitting on standby. Considering how much I still have to learn and the meritocratic industry I'm going on,
these sentences have a tangible incentive, but I'm also figuring out how to balance that with what I intrinsically want to write
which I'm not so sure of. I do enjoy the story I have written so far, though I have made mistakes, but now I'm wondering if its
contents were topics of interest due my sheer desperation of my situation rather than appreciation. Is it bad that I don't know 
if my preferences are just the way they are because of my past struggles? Like do I act the way I do because I have to or I want to?

On that thought, I guess there is no real reason why our lives are invalid even if it's shaped by the situation around us. Of course everyone
may act differently if they were born in the most privileged world and could pursue whatever (relatively moral) behavior without
care for situation such as limited finances or genetic potential, but I don't think pushes our desperate not truely intrinsic stories to not
be of ourselves. Whatever facade we mask ourselves with is still us, just not maybe the full "us" I guess. 

I think that argues relatively well enough that this college story so far is the real me, and I'm just a bit nervous about the "other"
me that doesn't have this expectation, but I think my main issue underlying all of this is how do I end something so complete already? 
Like, (again this really fortunate), I think first 3 college years has really been such a great story: coming here with this anger that I should
have gotten into somewhere better, making friends, trying to work on my resume, finding community through clubs, learning how the corporate world
works, celebrating the graduation of many new and past friends, and mourning some deaths of family members to remind me of preciousness of time. 

Perhaps I should write these events down into some physical state rather than just have a "story" be a metaphor for my life, but I don't think that's 
the best way to commit all of my time. I think I'm still hungry and there is still way more to do, so I guess this year will just be a challenge of 
what I can muster when there is nothing chase after me and everything ahead. I remebered being so desperate to have a job during poor CS job market, but now
simply being at that step seems so trivial. I still have stuff to learn, excersises to do, friends to make but then also say goodbye to. The only change 
is now that I am tasked with the problem of figuring out how to best enjoy my wins, rather than to fight against and prevent more losses and that is a challenge indeed~